Psalm 89 a contemplation of Ethan the
Ezra hide I will sing of the mercies of
the Lord forever with my mouth will I
make known your faithfulness to all
generations for I have said mercy shall
be built up forever your faithfulness
you shall establish in the very heavens
I have made a covenant with my chosen I
have sworn to my servant David your seed
I will establish forever and build up
your throne to all generations and the
heavens will praise your wonders O Lord
your faithfulness also in the Assembly
of the Saints for who in the heavens can
be compared to the Lord who among the
sons of the mighty can be likened to the
Lord God is greatly to be feared in the
Assembly of the saints and to be held in
reverence by all those around him O Lord
God of hosts who is mighty like you O
Lord your faithfulness also surrounds
you you rule the raging of the sea when
its waves rise you steal them you have
broken Rahab in pieces as one who is
slain you have scattered your enemies
with your mighty arm the heavens are
yours the earth also is yours the world
in all its fullness you have found
the north and the south you have created
them Tabor and Herman rejoice in your
name you have a mighty arm strong as
your hand and high is your right hand
righteousness and justice are the
foundation of your throne mercy and
truth go before your face blessed are
the people who know the joyful sound
they walk Oh Lord in the light of your
countenance in your name they rejoice
all day long and in your righteousness
they are exalted for you are the glory
of their strength and in your favor our
horn is exalted for our shield belongs
to the Lord and our king to the Holy One
of Israel then you spoke in a vision to
your Holy One and said I have given help
to one who is mighty I have exalted one
chosen from the people I have found my
servant David with my holy oil I have
anointed him with whom my hand shall be
established also my arm shall strengthen
him the enemy shall not outwit him nor
the son of wickedness afflict him I will
beat down his foes before his face and
plague those who hate him but my
faithfulness
and my mercy shall be with him and in my
name his horn shall be exalted also I
will set his hand over the sea and his
right hand over the rivers he shall cry
to me you are my father my God in the
rock of my salvation also I will make
him my firstborn the highest of the
kings of the earth my mercy I will keep
for him forever and my covenant shall
stand firm with him his seed also I will
make to endure forever and his throne as
the days of heaven if his sons forsake
my law and do not walk in my judgments
if they break my statutes and do not
keep my Commandments then I will punish
their transgression with the rod and
their iniquity with stripes
nevertheless my loving-kindness I will
not utterly take from him nor allow my
faithfulness to fail my covenant I will
not break nor alter the word that has
gone out of my lips once I have sworn by
my holiness I will not lie to David his
seed shall endure forever and his throne
as the son before me
it shall be established forever like the
moon even like the faithful witness in
the sky but you have cast off and
abhorred you have been furious with your
anointed you have renounced the covenant
of your servant you have profaned his
crown by casting it to the ground
you have broken down all his hedges you
have brought his strongholds to ruin all
who passed by the way wonder him he is a
reproach to his neighbors you have
exalted the right hand of his
adversaries you have made all his
enemies rejoice you have also turned
back the edge of his sword and have not
sustained him in the battle you have
made his glory cease and cast his throne
down to the ground the days of his youth
you have shortened you have covered him
with shame how long will you hide
yourself forever will your wrath burn
like fire
remember how short my time is for what
futility have you created all the
children of men what man can live and
not see death can he deliver his life
from the power of the grave Lord where
are your former loving-kindnesses which
you swore to david in your truth
remember Lord the reproach of your
servants how I bear in my bosom the
reproach of all the many peoples with
which your enemies have reproached Oh
Lord with which they have reproached the
footsteps of your anointed blessed be
the Lord forevermore amen and amen
you